Thanks a lot folks.
I'm Jason Anthony Guy.
I manage one of the developer
technical support teams and I have
the great pleasure of bringing
up two people who have a lot,
who spend their days
worrying about security.
Brian Sathianathan is part of our
Emerging Technologies team and Damien
Weiss is part of our Apple Consulting
team and they spend their days,
as I said, thinking about how to
make things more secure.
So if you'll help me welcome to
the stage Brian Sathianathan.
Thank you, Jason.
I would want to say welcome
again for this section 635,
Security Best Practices
Using Open Source Tools.
My name is Brian Sathianathan.
I work for a group called
Emerging Technologies.
We are involved in design,
architecture and security for
Apple's internal IT group.
And my co-presenter
here is Damien Weiess.
He is an Apple consulting engineer.
He will be introducing himself
during his presentation.
And having said that,
let's move to the presentation.
With the growth of the internet,
more and more people are
getting into the internet,
businesses are getting into the internet,
there's a lot of commerce
done on the internet,
all these different factors.
have created the demand for security.
To make things worse,
in the past five or six years,
the number of vulnerabilities
that have been reported,
the threats that have been reported,
the virus attacks that
have been reported,
have almost doubled.
So all these events
tell us a simple story.
19 letters, three words, one idea.
Security is important.
The good news here is that
OS X is a secure platform.
It's got Unix at its core,
it's got security at its core,
and it's got security at
all the different levels.
It also has so many different
tools to enhance security.
Especially as a system administrator,
you could use OS X to increase
the security of your platform.
And especially, you could use OS X as an
administrative platform to administer
other machines in the network.
You could use OS X to do scanning,
to do detection and so many
different secure activities.
What are you going to learn here?
In this presentation,
initially you're going to learn about
some of the user level open source tools.
Tools that ship default with the OS.
Tools that you can use to enhance
the security in your organization.
How do you configure these tools?
And what are some of the
hardening techniques that
you can apply to these tools?
And also you're going to look at
some of the network scanning tools.
How do you use intrusion
detection software?
What are some of the scanning tools?
What are some of the event
correlation softwares?
And how can you detect file changes,
file system changes?
File tampering and all
these different activities.
And finally,
you're going to see how we can use
some common security libraries,
which are common to all
these different tools.
And how we can build our own tools
and get a general awareness of what's
inside these security tools and so on.
So it's going to be a
real interesting journey.
We're gonna approach security
from three different angles.
There are three different areas
where potential and possible
security attacks can come from.
From the physical side of it,
from the application side,
an attacker could attack your
application and gain unauthorized
access through your application,
upload malicious code
through your application,
so from the application side,
and also from the network side.
This section is actually added to
make the presentation complete,
but I'm actually going to quickly
skim through this section,
physical security.
This is often the hardest to obtain
because this involves humans,
and it also involves
responsibility of all the different
departments in the organization.
So this is actually
the hardest to obtain.
No matter how secure your system is,
in terms of software and hardware,
if somebody gains physical
access to your system,
there are so many different ways
that they can jeopardize the system.
And I just want to
highlight two things here.
I want to talk about
unprotected wireless networks,
especially networks
that aren't protected.
And people can drive around with antennas
and trying to get into these networks,
and attackers can use such
networks as launchpads.
Especially in the network
that you have here at Apple,
there are guys out there who
are detecting and scanning.
And preventing vulnerabilities
as it's happening,
as I speak.
And the next thing I want
to talk about is...
Having multiple applications.
Well, having to use multiple different
applications are inevitable because
you need so many different applications
to do your day-to-day activities.
But all these applications need
some form of authentication and
eventually it's going to be a password.
So at the end of the day,
you have to remember all these
different passwords and you
cannot remember all of them.
You're going to write
them in yellow stickies,
stick them somewhere,
and eventually they're going
to go to the trash can and
get into some attacker's hand.
Or somebody who has physical access is
going to get his hand on the passwords
and then a compromise can happen.
So it's always the best practice to move
away from multiple password systems.
Move on to a single sign-on system.
Or move on to a system that has
single sign-on and single password.
Or single sign-on or a
multi-factor authentication or a
two-factor based authentication.
system.
Compromises, as I said,
will also happen at
the application level.
Before I go into the application level,
I would like to talk about something.
As I mentioned previously,
OS X is a secure system.
It is secure out of the box.
And there are quite a few examples.
And the two things that I'd like
to bring here is that OS X has a
real good separation between user
accounts and administrative accounts.
The root account is disabled by default.
And especially there is,
and there are file Unix level
permissions that separate you between
administrative and user accounts.
And with Tiger,
you're going to have all the
ACLs and all the great features.
And in terms of network ports, OS X,
Client has zero ports open.
An out-of-the-box OS X client
does not have any ports open.
A server, of course, has six ports open,
and two of which are security softwares,
like SSHD on 22 and
then the Kerberos port.
And four of them are
administrative ports.
Now we're going to look at some
tools that enhance security.
The reason that we are
looking at these tools,
these tools can help
you to enhance security.
These tools can provide
you with authentication,
can provide you with access,
can also provide you with encryption,
can provide you data integrity,
and so on and so forth.
So what we're going to do is
we're going to look at some
configuration and some hardening
techniques by using these tools.
The first tool we're going
to talk about is OpenSSL.
It's ship default with the OS X.
It is an open source tool.
It's an open source implementation
of the SSL protocol.
It's a great tool to do
certificate management.
You can manage a certificate
throughout its lifecycle.
Using this tool,
you can also manage a private
key throughout its lifecycle.
You can use this tool to do client
server-based authentication,
and you can also do
encryption using these tools.
It has all these different encryption
utilities embedded in this tool.
Especially what you could do is you
could actually create or generate
a certificate by using OpenSSL,
and then later on you can use
that certificate to do both
client and server authentication.
Especially when you hit an HTTPS website,
your client browser encounters
a server certificate.
Then by looking at the
installed CA in the client,
it actually verifies
the server certificate,
and the reverse also could be done.
Basically,
this tool allows you to produce
certificates that can be later
on used to do authentication and
encryption and so on and so forth.
However, at Apple,
we do ship the CDSA frameworks.
The CDSA frameworks are much more secure.
It provides certificate
management functions.
It provides security services.
It provides encryption services.
It provides a lot of the
things that OpenSSL does.
And there are numerous advantages
by using the CDSA frameworks.
Because if you use the CDSA frameworks,
you can do export control
paperwork really easily.
And then you can have so many
other different features as
far as handling private keys,
public keys, and so on and so forth.
And it's optimized too.
So at Apple, we strongly recommend you
to use the CDSA frameworks.
And if you have an old
application that uses OpenSSL,
that links directly to
some OpenSSL libraries,
it's okay to use OpenSSL.
But if you are trying to build some
cryptographic application or some
kind of public key-based application,
it's always recommended that
you use the CDSA frameworks.
What we see here are some of the
functions that Open SSL can do.
First, generating keys.
Open SSL can be used to
generate private keys.
It can also be used to view keys,
view your private keys and
also view your certificates.
It can be used to create
certificate signing requests.
So you basically give the private
key in and then tell Open Source to
create a CSR signing request,
and it will give you a bunch of questions
in which you need to give answers,
and then it'll eventually
create your signing request.
You can create a CRL.
In the case of verification,
when the server verifies,
when the client or the server
verifies a certificate,
it'll actually look, check across a CRL,
and then you can create
CRLs by using OpenSSL.
And you can actually do the signing
process itself by using OpenSSL,
provided you are the CA or the
signing or the administrator.
You can also do certificate
format changing and formatting.
For example,
certificates are in multiple formats.
You can turn them from PEM formats
to DER format and so on and so forth.
And then finally, you can verify.
You can actually tell what
role you want OpenSSL to play,
and it actually will go through the
different depths that you specify,
to verify your certificate.
And what we have here
is a typical example.
In the case of web authentication,
if a website wants to
authenticate a client,
what would the web server do?
It would actually have some
kind of a password username,
some kind of a basic or a digest-based
mechanism to authenticate the client.
We could also use a certificate
from the client side to really
authenticate the server.
So in order to do that, we actually,
in this example,
we modified the http.d.conf and
added some configurations to it
to do such an authentication.
What we did first is
that we added this entry,
which basically tells you which
is the CA certificate to verify
the client certificate with.
The name of the CA certificate that
will verify the client certificate with.
And this section tells you the
directory that you want to protect,
and these are some of the
SSL options that will allow you,
where you tell SSL to do
certain functionality for
you to protect your website.
The next tool that we're
going to look at is OpenSSH.
OpenSSH is the open source
implementation of the SSH protocol.
OpenSSH is shipped default in OS X.
It's a great tool.
It provides you with encryption,
data integrity and secure communication.
It actually encrypts both your data
channel as well as your command channel.
So in OS X,
the remote shell is actually OpenSSH.
So it provides you
file transfer services,
it provides you secure shell services,
it provides you secure copy services,
it replaces all the R utilities.
So we recommend you to use OpenSSH.
It's a great tool.
And OpenSSH has the client
as well as the server side.
The client is basically
the SSH or the SSH server.
The client is basically the SSH server.
So let's look at some hardening
techniques that you can use at the
SSH D daemon to increase security.
The file in question here is sshd.config.
And some of the changes that we're
going to make here are basically we
could filter connections that are
incoming into the SSHD based on IP.
And we could give access
for incoming connections.
And then something else we could do is we
could also do filtering based on users.
We could only allow certain
users to connect to the system.
Another important thing I'd
like to highlight here is that
previously I mentioned to move
away from password systems.
So you could use some kind of a public
key-based system to authenticate to SSHD,
or you could even move into
a system like Kerberos.
Having said that,
let's move into the next section.
It's IP firewalls.
We said that OS X is a very
secure platform out of the box.
As soon as you start using
all the different services,
eventually you're gonna
open up a lot of ports.
You're gonna open up different
ports and you're gonna install
all your different servers.
So they are gonna have
a lot of ports too.
So the best way,
when you are in a public network,
to protect yourself is
by using an IP firewall.
And OS X, by default,
has a firewall built into it.
And if you go to the client,
if you have the IP FW firewall
interface in the client,
this is the system
preferences sharing panel.
And in the server,
you have it in the server admin panel.
So you can enable your firewalls and
protect yourself from all the attack
that can happen in the public internet.
And if you are a command
line kind of guy,
you could actually use the IPFW utility
and build your firewalls and then
centrally push firewalls and do
all kinds of different activities.
So the IPFW utility goes like this.
The IPFW, the command,
Add commands or list or zero,
all those things.
Then the action, the protocol,
the addresses,
and also the externals and the source,
destination, and so on and so forth.
And what you see below is
a list of commands that has
been installed into the IPFW.
The next interesting tool that I would
like to talk about is Kerberos.
Previously, I mean,
in the slides that came before,
I was talking about,
the tools that I was talking about
are primarily both public key
and shared key based mechanism.
Now we're going to talk about Kerberos.
Kerberos is primarily a
shared key based mechanism.
It actually gives security.
It provides you with
authentication and single sign-on.
And Kerberos is shipped
default with the OS X.
It's MIT's, to be technically correct,
it's MIT's three-party
key agreement protocol.
So basically what it does is
that it gives us single sign-on.
It gives us authentication.
So how does it give us single sign-on?
So to understand how Kerberos
gives single sign-on,
we need to understand how
it gives us single sign-on.
There are three components in the system.
The client, the application or the
application server,
and the KDC.
So the real problem here is that the
server needs to authenticate the client.
So how can the server
authenticate the client?
The server can authenticate the client
by some sort of a trust credential
provided by a trusted entity.
And that trusted entity is
the key distribution center,
or the KDC in Kerberos.
The KDC will have all the
different user accounts.
And what happens is the clients and the
application servers will actually have
Kerberos libraries installed in them.
So when somebody wants
to log into Kerberos,
he will log into the
client Kerberos library.
And as soon as a login happens,
a ticket-granting ticket
is given to the client.
So what happens is this ticket-granting
ticket is stored into the client cache.
And as long as you have
a ticket-granting ticket,
you can actually participate in all the
other different authentication sections.
For example,
if you want to use an application,
the user will go and click an
application and the application opens up.
And the application sees, okay,
there's a ticket-granting ticket,
because the application
is sensitive of Kerberos.
So it sees that there's
a ticket-granting ticket,
and it takes the ticket-granting ticket,
presents it to the KDC,
and it'll get a service
ticket for that session.
As soon as you get a service ticket,
the application will take a one-time
token from the service ticket and
present that through its custom protocol.
It could also use Kerberos,
but in most applications,
they use their own protocol to take
that token from the service ticket.
It can be a GSS token,
or if you're familiar with the APIs,
it can be a GSS or a KRB token.
And it takes the token,
it presents it to the application server,
and the application server
verifies and gives access.
And as long as you have a TGT,
all the different
applications can participate.
So using one TGT,
using multiple different service tickets,
the applications can
participate in a single sign-on.
The beauty here is that
when a user logs in,
the password never
travels across the wire.
And the TGT and the service
tickets are actually time limited,
so it increases the security.
And what we have here is the
Kerberos configuration file.
In OS X, it's in library preferences.
It's called edu.mit.kerberos.
And if you are using some
sort of a directory mechanism,
like if you enable
Active Directory plugin,
or if you enable an LDAP-based plugin,
and you want to use
Kerberos along with it,
this file would be
automatically created for you.
And if you are connecting to
a different Kerberos server,
like a Solaris server or something,
you could create this file.
So let me quickly go through this file.
So each KDC belongs to
a realm or a domain,
just like your system,
it belongs to a domain.
So it belongs to a realm.
And what you see here are
the realm configurations.
And what you see here is the entry
that tells your client Kerberos
libraries where your KDC is.
It'll give you the
domain name of the KDC,
as well as the ports of the KDC.
And you can have multiple
KDC entries down there.
And in case of a failure,
in case of the first KDC fails,
it would naturally fail
over to the second KDC,
and so on and so forth.
In our Apple IT group,
we did have the exact same problem.
We had a number of applications,
we had tons of them,
and then we had tons of
passwords to remember.
So what we did is we moved on
from our password scheme to
a single sign-on base scheme.
How did we do that?
We actually used the framework that
was deployed in the Western platform,
the Kerberos framework,
and we built a login
application on top of that.
And we also added some more
features on top of this application.
So what did we actually add?
The things that we added was we
added extension based on activity.
If a user is sitting actively on
his terminal and having some kind
of keystrokes or mouse movements,
then the tickets will be renewed.
The TGT that's obtained will be renewed.
The TGT eventually will be taken
for a shorter time and will keep on
renewing it according to activity.
And something else we added
was selective participation.
There are certain
mission-critical applications.
There are certain applications
which do not want to
participate in single sign-on.
So these applications can
centrally be disabled from
participating in single sign-on.
Or the user can decide whether
his application to participate
in single sign-on or not,
and so on and so forth.
We also added another nice feature.
It's called login slash logout hooks.
Especially if somebody is logged
into the single sign-on system,
and when somebody goes into the
Kerberos window and signs off,
it would naturally,
the hooks would tell each application,
will call back each application, and say,
hey,
I'm going to log out of this application.
And they would say, look,
this guy has already logged out.
And the applications could
take their own actions.
And the vice versa is true, too.
You could actually install a hook.
When people log out of applications,
the central login
system would know about.
One of the most interesting things we did
is that we added pluggable authentication
to our single sign-on system.
So we basically added Kerberos
hardware authentication,
a SAM based security authentication,
module based authentication.
So we could do Kerberos authentication,
we could bootstrap the
authentication by using a smart card.
And that was a very
cool thing that we did.
And what we are going to
see here is a tiny demo.
It's going to be actually a video demo.
So what you see here
is a Kerberos window.
And we don't have any tickets right now.
So we are going to the central
application that we created.
And then we are logging into the system.
Oops, the caps is on.
Okay, let me go back, re-tap everything.
That's a long password.
So let me sign in.
I'm signing into the system,
and I'm also automatically
signed into Kerberos.
So it shows my TGT.
- And I can see my TGT there,
and it's time limited.
It's taken for an hour.
And now let me go back to,
since I have the TGT,
I can go back to the application
and sign using the applications.
So now I'm signed in.
So if I go back to Kerberos,
I should see...
I'm actually moving,
dragging the application away.
If I go back to Kerberos,
I will also see my service
ticket for that application.
And now I'm wiping off my service ticket,
and it automatically logged
me off the application.
If I try to sign in again,
it'll actually prompt me my login window.
So you also can actually use the
existing Kerberos framework and start
building single sign-on systems.
It's really easy to do,
and it's real powerful,
and it's really good.
And having said that,
let's move on to the next section.
It's the keychains.
Well, in the OS X,
the keychain is the default
central repository for all
passwords and all secrets.
So you could store passwords as
well as certificates and all these
different things in the keychain.
And especially if you want
OS X native applications like
Safari and the CF framework and
all these different components to
really recognize your certificates,
you need to install
them into the keychains.
You have to install them
into the anchors file.
So we have seen all the basic tools.
Now let's see what else can be done.
So I'm going to toss it on to
Damien to lead us from here.
Damien, here you go.
Thank you, Brian.
My name's Damien Weiss.
I work for the
Apple Enterprise Consulting Group,
dealing with deployment
and integration issues.
And I spend most of my time,
most of my focus on security issues.
Going to talk about
what else can be done.
We're gonna talk about password policies,
scanning, file system changes and
network intrusion detection.
Let's talk about password policies.
You know, passwords are the main
gate into your machine.
They are the easiest way in and,
if you make them so, the hardest way in.
I have a friend of mine who
aspires to be a screenwriter and
he loves to say all the time,
he loves to say, you know,
if you had a thousand monkeys
and a thousand typewriters
typing for a thousand years,
they'd eventually turn out the
screenplay for The Godfather.
He also likes to say that
if they give him a day,
they would turn out the screenplay
for Titanic and the monkeys
would have enough time to smoke
a couple of cigarettes afterwards.
And that aside,
I see a lot of folks when I go on site,
I see a lot of folks who have
the Titanic of passwords.
Their password policies are very
lax and indeed I'll ask them,
I'll say, well, you know,
what's your password or, you know,
what's this user's password?
And they'll tell me and generally
it's the username plus a number,
which is the first thing, of course,
people scan for.
You know, what do we do at Apple?
We're not here to help you guys out.
by actually implementing
it into Open Directory.
And there's a mistake
up here on the screen,
where it says work group manager.
That's supposed to say server admin.
So if you go to server admin,
then to the Open Directory tab,
you'll actually see there,
you can set a number of things.
You can set password policies,
such as whether or not the
user can have a password,
with their name in it,
or whether or not they
have to have numbers,
or anything along those lines.
Also,
password generators are great to use.
There's hundreds of them out there.
If you go to Google and search
for simply password generator,
at least 100 will pop up.
My two favorite, personally,
are those that go ahead and generate
passwords that are not in the dictionary,
but nevertheless sound
like normal English words.
Indeed, what you find is that they're
words that sound like words
that you would use every day,
but grossly misspelled.
Also, are those password generators
that generate passwords,
that are easy to type,
but are just an amalgam of letters,
and numbers, and punctuation marks?
Finally, administrator password policies.
You know,
I remember the first time as a system
administrator I was actually working
at the defense department at DISA.
And the administrator,
the root password for 35
Next Step machines was simply DISA and
then the name of that computer.
And that's what it was
when I first arrived.
And needless to say,
about 15 years later,
things don't seem to change at clients.
Part of the problem is too many
machines to remember the root password,
administrator password for.
I would strongly suggest
that each password be unique.
Don't try to go ahead and make
the mistake of setting up the
administrator password based on
the company name or your manager's
name or anything along those lines.
Because you really need
to protect yourself,
especially on the admin password,
from both external attacks
but also internal attacks.
The guy three cubes down knows
what your manager's name is.
We're going to talk about
network scanning and monitoring,
and we're going to
talk about these tools.
But first, you know,
these tools really generate a lot
of output and the real goal is to go
ahead and essentially break into your
network and find the weaknesses for you.
And a lot of folks for some reason seem
to think a good idea is just to leave the
results of this on the hard drive just
somewhere unencrypted or world readable.
Please secure them.
My favorite technique is to
actually use one of those USB,
[Transcript missing]
Folks have an easy way of plugging
in a computer and then hiding it
from you in order to listen to
all the traffic on the network.
Let's talk about Nessus.
Nessus is a great utility.
It goes ahead and does
more than obviously Nmap.
It goes ahead and performs scans.
It looks and actively sweeps the network
based on plugins that you've given it.
So, for instance,
database plugins or plugins
There we go, sorry about that.
It goes ahead and has plug-ins for
a number of operating systems and
a number of protocols and services,
allows you to go ahead and
specify exactly what it is
that you're scanning for.
And those results are very good.
You can go ahead and rescan
over and over and over again.
I have a client who actually
runs Nessus day and night,
specifically just looking for
new stuff and new vulnerabilities
out there on the network.
OSM really straddles the line
between scanning and monitoring
and intrusion detection,
which we're going to
get to later on here.
But I really wanted to stick it
here in the scanning and monitoring.
It really is sort of the overlord,
if you want to think of it that way,
of security utilities.
It gathers information from everywhere,
from log files, from scans,
from anything and everything
that it can possibly find.
And its goal is to bring that
all together in one place.
But more importantly,
to bring it together in one place so
it gets a better read on the network,
so as to eliminate any false positives,
excuse me,
any false negatives of intrusion
detection on your network.
What else can you do?
Well, you can also scan the file system.
What I mean by that is scanning
the file system is simply going
The first step is to look
at each file and save it.
It allows you to know when
changes have been made.
Why do you want to do that?
When a break-in happens,
the evidence of the break-in and the
attempt at a break-in is generally
found somewhere on the file system.
Also, after a break-in has happened,
any back doors that are left on
the machine are definitely found
somewhere within that file system.
Knowing about a break-in
after it happens,
very soon after it happens,
helps to prevent further break-ins.
You can see that the first machine
to go is generally the beachhead,
and then from there,
because all the machines are
generally trusting of each
other on some level or another,
or in the case of most machines,
you know, all the administrator
passwords are the same,
it allows the ease of breaking
into further machines.
So you really want to stop
that as quickly as possible.
I'm going to talk about a couple
of tools that allow you to scan,
Tripwire and Radmine.
First is Tripwire.
Tripwire is great for
locking down one machine,
even if it's not on the network.
It goes ahead and just like I said,
it does a checksum on every
single file on your network,
excuse me, on that one machine.
And it goes ahead and
detects any changes.
So you run it every night at
1:00 in the morning or whenever,
and it will go ahead and tell
you what files have been changed.
There's a lot of files
that change every day,
obviously log files,
those kind of things, UTEM, WTEM files,
those things change normally.
But what you're looking for obviously
changes in files and in directories
that shouldn't be changing at all.
A good thing to look here is SUID bits.
SUID bits that have been
changed or added to files.
An old popular way of backdoor,
an old popular backdoor was to go
ahead and find an SUID file or actually
create an SUID file depending on
what kind of access the cracker had
to the machine and copy in shell,
seashell, any shell file into that
container of a file and thus
granting you an SUID shell file.
Radmine.
You know, Radmine won one of the design
awards for last year's WWDC.
It's a great utility.
If you guys haven't looked at it,
I encourage you strongly to take a look.
It's really a client-server tripwire
is the best way I know to describe it.
The first thing that you would
do is you'd first configure your
Radmine server to take the load sets,
which are those checksum files,
and go ahead then and go to each
one of the clients or use ARD,
for that matter,
to run the assistant to go ahead
and create those load sets.
At that point,
you can go ahead and automatically
check for any changes and even
possibly roll back any changes.
I'm going to talk about network intrusion
detection and why you want to do that.
Well, as the slide says, very simply,
another pair of eyes never hurts.
And in this case,
multiple sets of eyes never hurt.
And also, machines never sleep.
And I have noticed that it
seems that crackers seem to work
best or at the very least most
frequently from about 10 o'clock
to about 4 o'clock in the morning.
And that's generally the
time when I am dead asleep.
[Transcript missing]
Snort, you know, it is a big mouthful.
I've been practicing this slide over
the last week and every time I get to
the sentence I'm always just blown away.
Snort uses user defined preprocessors and
rulesets to detect suspicious packets.
And what that means is,
sounds like someone applauded for that.
I didn't know that people
were in doubt of my literacy,
but who knew?
No, I'm sorry.
It uses rulesets to
detect suspicious packets.
And what that means is there's a number
of rulesets that run within Snort.
And what it does is it uses
[Transcript missing]
Written like this.
First you have an action,
which in this case is alert,
I have in this example.
And the next one is the protocol,
which will be TCP.
The source address is any
and the port address is any.
Now what I've gone ahead and done
is I'm going to set up this rule
for detecting any Mount D access
from anywhere to my local network.
So I've got my destination address which
is the 192.168 with a net mask of 24.
Port number 111,
which is the mountd port,
and the actual specific content,
which is within that packet,
which is saying, hey, look,
this is a mountd packet.
And it will actually go ahead and
what actually needs to happen,
well, we're going to go ahead and
message to Snort Log that
mountd access has happened.
Pre-processors.
Pre-processors run before the rule sets.
They allow for packet modification
analysis before handing it off to that
detection engine or those rule sets.
And so what that means is that, you know,
it's those things, the pre-processors run
before the rule sets.
If you have certain packets that
you don't want to be detected or
if you're getting a lot of false
negatives on specific type of
packets or from one specific machine,
the place to go ahead and exempt those
packets is there in the pre-processors.
Go ahead and specify them
in the configuration file
just like we have up here.
The output modules, you know,
the output modules are simply just
telling SnoRT where to send the rule
set and preprocessor information.
So, you know, as a packet comes in,
goes through the rule sets,
where does SnoRT,
or where is SnoRT supposed
to write that information to?
And that's where the output
modules come into play.
I know some clients like to go
ahead and specify all the output,
just go into one huge hunking file.
And others like to go
ahead and break it up very,
very small.
We've talked about what
else you should do,
and now I'm going to talk
about what you shouldn't do.
Please don't enable the R utilities.
R Shell, R Copy, etc.
I have been guilty of
doing this in the past.
However, the models have changed now.
We actually have alternatives
to each one of these utilities.
While the utilities themselves
specifically are not secure,
in order to go ahead and
get them up and running,
you have to go ahead and
open up security holes.
Telnet, there's a great alternative
Brian went ahead and talked about,
Secure Shell.
And Finger.
I've noticed,
the first time I was introduced to Unix,
the first thing I was actually
introduced to was Finger.
And I thought this was earth shattering,
that you could go ahead and actually
stick your status in somewhere
and people could actually read it.
This was the greatest
thing since sliced bread.
Obviously, all the functionality of
Finger has now been replaced by
AIM or by personal web pages.
Also,
try not to use non-SSL mail protocols.
I love to go to client sites,
set up my PowerBook,
let it scan for an hour,
and then show the clients all the
mail passwords and usernames that
I've gone ahead and harvested just
by listening to their network.
It usually brings a little bit of unease,
but then they realize, "Hey,
we need to do something about
this." And that's what I enjoy,
is actually fixing those problems.
FTP, use SFTP or Secure Shell.
While limited use of
TFTP isn't inherently insecure,
you see a lot of times folks trying to
extend TFTP beyond what it was designed
to do and thus making it insecure.
And finally,
non-open directory based authentication.
There's a lot of problems that we
see outside of open directory and
I would encourage you not to enable it.
So with that,
I'm going to go ahead and invite
Brian back on up here and he'll talk
to you about writing your own tools.
Goodbye.
Thanks, Damien.
That was wonderful.
We saw a great list of all
these different open source
tools and how you can take
advantage of them to do scanning,
intuition detection, correlation and all
these different things.
Especially as an administrator,
one of the things that you really need
to know is when you use all these tools,
what is inside these tools?
And to get a general awareness,
you have to know what are the
components of these tools.
So I'm going to talk to you about
some of the network components
or some of the libraries these
tools are constructed with.
And most of them are
open source libraries.
And the first library that I'm
going to talk about is libpcap.
libpcap is default in OS X.
It's a packet capturing library.
It listens on the wire and
it can capture both Ethernet,
TCP, IP and all these different
types of packets.
And any sort of application like
tcpdump would actually use libpcap.
And a lot of the different
tools actually use libpcap.
All the different open source tools,
they actually use libpcap
to do the packet capturing.
Later on, I'm going to show you a program
that I've written using libpcap.
It's a great library.
The next library is libnet.
Libnet is a packet
injection/packet creation library.
So you can use libnet to
create weird TCP packets,
I would say.
Or packets with different
types of packets.
Or packets with different headers
and all this different stuff.
So it's a great utility and a
lot of the intrusion detection
tools and even SNORT uses libnet.
Libnet is actually a low level tool.
If you are building all these
different open source libraries,
you have to build libnet first in
order to build all the other libraries.
Libdnet is an abstraction library
which provides you abstracted data,
abstracted kernel data,
like the interface information,
like the ARP cache and
also the routing table.
So you can have direct access to the
routing table by using the Libdnet.
And a lot of the security
tools and applications does,
in fact, use Libdnet.
And the next tool is, the next library,
I keep on saying tool for libraries.
The next library is LibSF.
LibSF is an OS fingerprinting library.
So by using LibSF, you can detect what
your destination OS is,
what OS you are pinging on.
So basically LibSF can work on
active as well as passive modes.
And what it does is it has
a database on how the kernel
responds to certain packets.
And depending on the
feedback it receives,
it can also send you a message that says,
hey, I'm using Libdnet.
And it actually gives scores.
And the system that gets the highest
score is most likely to be the
system that's in the destination.
So it's a great library
you can use in your tools.
And the next library is LibNIDS.
LibNIDS is a TCP fragmentation
and assembly detection library.
Most of the intrusion detection
tools actually use LibNIDS.
Tools like LNIDS and
NIDS and I guess DSNIF,
all these tools are used in LibNIDS.
But you can actually register a
callback function into LibNIDS.
When LibNIDS encounters
a fragmented IP packet,
it will actually call you back.
So it has great functionality.
The reason, as I said before,
why am I talking about all
these different libraries?
I'm talking about these different
libraries because it gives you a general
awareness of what your tools are made of.
Second, it gives you,
if you are a developer,
it gives you the ability to
code and write up a tiny tool.
Because most of the time,
you're not going to be able to code.
So most of the security
tools that we have,
they do a specific purpose.
They are for a specific purpose.
And if you might have a purpose that's
different from the tool's purpose,
so you can actually quickly
write up some tool of your own
by using some of these libraries.
And having said that...
Let's move on to see how
you can write your tool.
I, in fact, wrote up a small program,
100 lines of code within
less than an hour.
It's very easy.
I call it the Browse Program,
and there are actually programs
like this in the open source arena.
What this does is
actually it uses libpcap,
listens on your wire,
captures IP packets,
and then it strips off
Mac addresses from the packets,
and if it finds a new Mac address,
it stores it in an array,
and then it resolves the
Mac address to a vendor name.
So basically it browses the network
and finds out all these devices
and which vendor it belongs to.
You could actually easily
extend this program,
put libsf in it,
and you could actually do fingerprinting.
So it's a very tiny program,
and what you see here is
the output of the program.
You see I ran it in my home network,
and you see the Mac addresses, the IPs,
and the vendor names.
So these tools will really allow
you to write up these libraries.
The knowledge of these libraries
will allow you to write up tools and
increase security in your network.
Now in conclusion...
Take advantage of all the
tools that we showed you.
They are great tools and also use OS X as
an administrative platform to run all
these tools and secure your network.
And here, what you see are some of the
different URLs for these tools.
Tools like Nessus, Nmap,
Radmind and the Libnet libraries.
Some of the tools, the rest of them,
they actually come in the OS X.